Project Proposal - CMPUT 275

Project Title: Blackjack

By:
Curtis Goud - Section EB2
Andrew Wood - Section EB1

Brief Description:

Our project will be to create a blackjack program where a user can play blackjack with an AI. Our program
will include all regular blackjack actions, hints for the user, a card counting assist, and multiplayer.
User will also be able to customize their game such that they are able to choose how many decks to play
with and being able to turn off hints and card counting assistance. The user can also choose whether or
not they want to play with an AI beside them. Our project will be made on the computer, not arduino.

Milestones:

1. Creating Deck Class and User Interface
  Making a class for the deck that will have its own methods (shuffle etc.). We will be utilizing a stack
  to represent a deck of cards that we can pop cards off of. Also designing a basic user interface to
  build off of. Demo would be showing deck class and basic graphics.

2. Full Implentation of Game (Player and Dealer)
  Finishing off full blackjack playability. This includes finishing user interface with basic graphics
  and user actions (hit, stand, etc.). We also plan on implementing a card counter that will be based
  off of the High-Low Card counting strategy. Demo would be being able to play the basic game.

3. Hints for the user, tells them correct move
  Using a basic blackjack probability table, we will attempt to give the user a hint on what the correct
  action is. We plan to put this table into a dictionary that will be have a specific action for every
  possible hand. Demo would be a hint button on screen that will show the tip if user wants it and
  the probability dictionary.

4. Adding in AI
  We will be creating an AI that will make choices based off of the card count and the probability table
  that is described in the third milestone. Demo would be playing with another person other than dealer.

5. Extra options (decks, card counting on or off, number of players, etc.)
  Adding in the option for more decks, displaying the count or not, and adding in multiplayer
  functionality. In this milestone we will also be optimizing previously written algorithms to ensure
  that the game is running smoothly. Demo would be being able to play with whatever options the user
  wants and being able to play with more people.
